README.md, before:

# Data Server

## Docker setup

To deploy the Data Server using Docker, first build the image described by the
Dockerfile with:

```bash
docker build --tag data-server:latest .
```

NOTE: this will build the image and tag it with the name `data-server:latest`

Then, to run a container with the built image:

```bash
docker run --publish 4000:4000 data-server
```

Alternatively, one can simply call a npm command that will execute the above
commands building and running the docker image:

```bash
npm run docker:up
```

When the docker container starts it will log to the console some messages saying
that server is ready and accessible on: `http://localhost:4000`

## Manual Setup

To launch the Data Server from the command line, follow the below instructions.

### Install dependencies

To ensure the correct node version is being used, if one uses the
node version manager [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) it can simply run:

```bash
nvm use
nvm install # if necessary
```

If `nvm` is not available, this project uses node version ^13.12.0. Thus, for
installing node follow instructions from [official documentation](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

After setting up node version, to install `npm` dependencies run:

```bash
npm install
```

### Start server

To start the server with a mock data scheme just execute:

```console
npm start
```

#### GraphiQL (playground)

With the server running it is possible to access a GraphQL query playground
were you can request information from the server it should be located at
`http://localhost:4000`.

Commit message:

chore(env): add .env example and documentation
The .env.example is a reference to .env configuration files used on
this project. This files are used to store environments configuration
that should be changed in different deploys. For now, we are using the
.env to store the keys used to decrypt the JWT token and set the
default port for GraphQL Server.

See README.md for more information on how to setup.

Change-Id: I34e116a93ffabf9d8feb77cd99b934db8419b771

README.md, after:

# Data Server

## Docker setup

To deploy the Data Server using Docker, first build the image described by the
Dockerfile with:

```bash
docker build --tag data-server:latest .
```

NOTE: this will build the image and tag it with the name `data-server:latest`

Then, to run a container with the built image:

```bash
docker run --publish 4000:4000 data-server
```

Alternatively, one can simply call a npm command that will execute the above
commands building and running the docker image:

```bash
npm run docker:up
```

When the docker container starts it will log to the console some messages saying
that server is ready and accessible on: `http://localhost:4000`

## Manual Setup

To launch the Data Server from the command line, follow the below instructions.

### Set Environment Variables

To start the server is necessary to provide all environment variables, this can
be done using a `.env` file. For a quick start just create a symbolic link to
`.env.example`

#### Manual

```console
cp .env.example .env
vim .env
```

Or for a quick start:

```console
 ln -s .env.example .env
```

### Install dependencies

To ensure the correct node version is being used, if one uses the
node version manager [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) it can simply run:

```bash
nvm use
nvm install # if necessary
```

If `nvm` is not available, this project uses node version ^13.12.0. Thus, for
installing node follow instructions from [official documentation](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

After setting up node version, to install `npm` dependencies run:

```bash
npm install
```

### Start server

To start the server with a mock data scheme just execute:

```console
npm start
```

#### GraphiQL (playground)

With the server running it is possible to access a GraphQL query playground
were you can request information from the server it should be located at
`http://localhost:4000`.
